osccontrol-light - An audio plugin that speaks OSC
==================================================

This software enables sending and receiving of Open Sound Control
(OSC) messages from audio plugin host environments such as digital
audio workstations (DAW).

Controls are tied to OSC messages directly in the host environment
without encoding the control data as MIDI CC messages. This way,
control automation can be sent and received via OSC at
full-resolution, and all time sequencing, automation recording,
modulation and side-chaining functionality of the host environment can
be used for external OSC control.

We provide a plugin or standalone UI that enables prototyping of
control presets by quick switching and reloading of preset
definitions.  To integrate into a host environment with automatable
controls, the plugin can run in headless mode that loads a specific
preset upon construction.

Control presets are defined via a concise YAML-based textual markup
format.


Usage
-----

To run the standalone UI application, execute the `osccontrol-light`
application binary. To run the UI inside a plugin host, make the
`osccontrol-light.{so,dll}` file available to the host environment and
load the plugin.

The UI elements are illustrated in the following.

<img src="Documentation/Images/ui-overview.png" width="512" title="osccontrol-light UI overview">

To create a headless instance of the plugin that provides automatable
controls inside an audio plugin host environment, create a copy of the
`osccontrol-light.{so,dll}` file with the preset name as
`osccontrol-light-<name>.{so,dll}`. This enables registration of the
controls at plugin initialization time, which is necessary for most
hosts.

Environment variables:
- `OSCCONTROL_SCALE_FACTOR`: Set UI scale factor for high DPI displays.
- `OSCCONTROL_PRESET_PATH`: Set directory with preset definitions.

The directory specified via the UI or `OSCCONTROL_PRESET_PATH` will be
searched recursively for `*.yaml` preset definition files.

**Please note: setting `OSCCONTROL_PRESET_PATH` in the environment is
  mandatory for headless mode!**


Preset Definitions
------------------

Control presets are defined in a YAML-based configuration format as
follows. Refer to the [Presets](Presets) folder for more examples.


```
network:
  host: 127.0.0.1
  port: 6789

controls:
  - name: frequency
    type: float
    range: [100, 2000]
    default: 440
    message: /synth/freq

  - name: amplitude
    type: float
    range: [0, 1]
    default: 0.8
    message: /synth/amplitude
```

Currently, only continuous (float) controls are supported. Additional
control types, such as toggle buttons or parameter groups will be
added in upcoming releases.


Platform Support
----------------

Different plugin SDKs are supported via the [JUCE](https://juce.com/)
library (VST, VST3, AU, RTAS and AAX), as well as all major operating
systems (GNU/Linux, MacOS and Microsoft Windows).


Compilation
-----------

Build the standalone application and plugin for your platform by
exporting the project files for your favorite IDE using the
[Projucer](https://juce.com/discover/projucer) application that ships
with JUCE. Specific build instructions for different platforms can be
found in [here](Documentation/BuildInstructions.md).


Licensing
---------

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version. 

See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.
